# Bloody Mess!
A back-to-basics weapon/monster mod.
---

## What?
I wanted to make something simple, but interesting. Something that would evoke the feel of the good ol' days of grabbing random shit off realm667, but would have the design sensibilities of more modern games like Doom Eternal, while also borrowing the coolest parts of Quake.

## How do I start?

### QUICK TIPS
1. Enemies drop *Armor Shards* when you do enough damage to *Stagger* them, and drop *Health Bits* when you kill them. Over-armor and over-heal will decay over time, though, so always look for a quick kill to top yourself off!
2. Killing enemies with your *Bolter Pistol* or the *Undertaker* causes them to drop ammo instead of health. The *Bolter Pistol* also does up to 2x damage on weakened enemies! Use it to build up ammo, but watch your health...
3. Stagger an enemy with the *Thermite Grinder* to turn the armor bits into nasty Thermite Bombs! Damage the Thermite Bombs with another weapon to set them off, sending them flying away.

### WEAPON SPECIFICS
0. The *Blood Wave Device* replaces the chainsaw. Hit your USE INVENTORY key to activate it, consuming 100 units of charge and firing a shockwave that hits 8 times for 20 damage per hit. It has a radius of 128 and does full damage within this distance, meaning that even enemies on the edge of the crowd will be slammed. Zombies and shotgunners are basically guaranteed to die when struck by this, and if you manage to land every hit on a single target, it does a total of 160 damage. Killing an enemy with the BWD causes it to drop ammo instead of health, just like the Bolter Pistol.
1. Your *Bolter Pistol* has infinite ammo. It does 10 damage, plus an additional 0-10 damage based on how badly hurt the target is (damage maxes out when the enemy's at 20% health). Killing an enemy with the Bolter Pistol, or within 2s of hitting them with the Bolter Pistol, causes them to drop random ammunition instead of health--it'll try to drop ammo that you have room for, but it's not perfect.
2. The *Nail Shotgun* consumes 1 Nail bundle and fires a spread of 3 nails (10 dmg each). The total damage is 30--enough to kill regular zombies in one hit, and put Imps and Chaingunners at half health. Its spread is significantly tighter than the vanilla SG, and is roughly the same every time. It also fires more rapidly than the vanilla SG.
- (2B) The *Coil Carbine* consumes 2 coils per shot, firing bolts in a reasonable spread that do 20 damage to the first thing they hit. This is roughly equivalent to the Coil Repeater on single small targets, but is less efficient against large targets or crowds. However, it doesn't have to spin up, making it better in close quarters.
3. The *Thermite Grinder* macerates 3 nail bundles into a trio of thermite blobs, flinging them at the enemy. Each thermite blob does 36-16 damage in a 40-unit radius--it might not sound like much, but it's enough to make closely-grouped zombies think twice. In addition, a direct hit with a blob does 12 damage, for a total of 48. Landing all three thermite blobs on one target does a whopping 144 damage, making it more efficient ammo-wise than the Nail Shotgun. In addition, staggering a target with the Thermite Grinder converts any Armor Shards the target would've dropped into *Mini Thermite Bombs*, which can be turned into deadly projectiles by shooting them with another weapon. Beware--any source of damage will set off the thermite bombs, including barrels and enemy shots!
4. The *Coil Repeater* steadily spins up as you hold down the trigger, firing piercing Coil rounds that do 4 damage per frame that they're in contact with the target. As it spins up, the fire rate increases but the accuracy decreases--but you can easily ruin an enemy's day by getting up close and personal. The Coil Repeater is also useful for triggering Thermite Bombs that are sandwiched between other enemies. Note that it's more ammo-efficient once it spins up to full speed.
- (4B) The *Photon Accelerator Cannon* fires faster as you hold the trigger down, much like the Coil Repeater--but unlike the Coil Repeater, it grows *more* accurate as it fires faster. The catch is that it eats ammo rapidly, even moreso than the Coil Repeater. Each of the 5 photon blasts that it fires does 10 damage, for a total of 50 if all shots hit the same target. It can fire one or two spreads of photon blasts without having to "cool off", but this is only useful in extreme close quarters or against large groups of enemies.
5. The *Macross Cannon* doesn't fire its minimissiles right away--instead, it collects them as you hold the trigger, releasing them toward your point of aim when you release the fire button. Each missile does 16 damage plus another 1-60 in a 60 unit radius, but as they fly, they spread out with distance--the further away you are, the more scattered the missiles will be. You can easily collect large amounts of missiles while behind cover, though it takes a bit of patience...
- (5B) The *Undertaker* consumes 4 Light Gems per blast to fire a deadly ball of hellish pain, doing 80 damage on impact plus 1-80 splash damage for a total of 160. Like the Bolter Pistol and Blood Wave Device, it causes enemies to drop ammunition instead of health, which offsets its lack of ammo efficiency compared to the PAC. Thanks to the excellent rate of fire and splash damage, it excels against groups.

## More Tips And Tricks
- Some enemies drop more armor, and others drop more health! Try to learn which enemies are more valuable for Thermite bombing and which are useful for ammo drops.
- You need to balance ammo usage with health gain, and vice versa. The BWD is vital to your survival--it can clear a massive pile of smaller monsters with ease, giving you a big pile of ammo in the process. And make sure you're using your guns! You can always execute enemies with the Bolter Pistol or BWD for ammo.
- The PACannon is ideal for sustained damage at a distance, while the Macross Cannon is great for when you're constantly weaving in and out of cover. Both are ammo-hungry damage hoses, and they share a weakness in the form of their wind-up period.
- Ammunition is tighter overall, not just on your more powerful weapons. However, your whole arsenal is more accurate than it is in vanilla (with the exception of the Coil Repeater and the Macross Cannon).
- All of your weapons are capable of carrying you through many situations. This only works if you have the ammunition to back it up, though. Familiarize yourself with your whole arsenal and use it well, and you'll never run dry.